#summary How to setup an environment to build and release this project with maven
#labels Featured,Phase-Implementation

= Maven Repository considerations =
Since version 0.0.5, this project is hosted on *[http://oss.sonatype.org/ Nexus OSS Repository]* that receive staged artifacts. After a while theses artifacts can be promoted to release artifacts and synced with the *Maven Central Repository* hourly

= Maven project integration =
 * Add in your *pom.xml* a dependency into JHOCR artifact:
{{{
<dependency>
  <groupId>com.googlecode.jhocr</groupId>
  <artifactId>jhocr</artifactId>
  <version>0.0.7</version>
</dependency>
}}}

http://search.maven.org/#browse%7C1318237209

The [https://oss.sonatype.org/content/repositories/releases/com/googlecode/jhocr/jhocr/ Nexus OSS Release Repository] contains released versions and requires no additionnal configuration.


If you want use snapshot versions, refer to the [https://oss.sonatype.org/content/repositories/snapshots/com/googlecode/jhocr/ Nexus OSS Snapshot Repository] with this configuration:

{{{
    <repositories>
        <repository>
            <id>sonatype.oss.snapshots</id>
            <name>Sonatype OSS Snapshot Repository</name>
            <url>http://oss.sonatype.org/content/repositories/snapshots</url>
            <releases>
              <enabled>false</enabled>
            </releases>
            <snapshots>
              <enabled>true</enabled>
            </snapshots>
        </repository> 
    </repositories>
}}}


= Building this project =
This project is build on top of maven and need some tools for achieve a complete deployement process. Keep in mind that this process require some private stuff like  
 # Deployement access to the OSS Nexus Repository 
 # PGP Secret Key for sign artifacts.
 # Google Code Subversion access for commiters (*that can be provided on demand*)
 # Google code authorization for setting new  manual downloads
 
That's why, The following guide can help you to build or participate to this project but not really deploy yourself artifacts.

== Required stuff ==
3 tools are needed:
 # Subversion that can be found http://www.open.collab.net/downloads/subversion/ for checkout or commiters
 * Maven that can be downloaded http://maven.apache.org/download.html for build it
 * GnuPG that can be downloaded http://www.gnupg.org/ for sign it 

In order to be synced into the Maven Central Repository, JHOCR artifacts are signed. the public key *1FCA9471* can be found at http://pgp.mit.edu/ (searchstring: 0xb19a415f1fca9471) for authentification control. You don't need to sign it for a simple build. This steps is only required when releasing and deploying the maven project.

You need to do some pre-configurations of theses tools:
 * '%MAVEN_HOME%/conf/settings.xml' for configure repository access (required for the release)
 * GnuPG ring keys required for sign artifacts (and '$GNUPGHOME' environment variable)

The 'settings.xml' must refer repository access and GPG passphrase like it:
{{{
<settings>
    <servers>
        <server>
            <id>sonatype-nexus-staging</id>
            <username>your_sonatype_login</username>
            <password>your_sonatype_passwd</password>
        </server>
        <server>
            <id>sonatype-nexus-snapshots</id>
            <username>your_sonatype_login</username>
            <password>your_sonatype_passwd</password>
        </server>
    </servers>

    <profiles>
      <profile>
﻿   <id>sign-artifacts</id>
         <properties>
             <gpg.passphrase>XXXXXX</gpg.passphrase>
         </properties>
      </profile>
   </profiles>
   
   <activeProfiles>
    ﻿  <activeProfile>sign-artifacts</activeProfile>
   </activeProfiles>
</settings>
}}}

After what, you can build this project following theses commands:
 * Build the project: 'mvn clean package'
 * Install the artifact in local repository: 'mvn install'

== Create a release tag in subversion ==
For this step you require a write access over 'https' on googlecode subversion.
You can be promote to contributors on demand but you need a googlecode account.
 # 'mvn clean release:prepare -Dusername=XXXXXX -Dpassword=XXXXXXX'
 # 'mvn release:perform -Dusername=XXXXXX -Dpassword=XXXXXXX'
 # 'mvn release:clean'

For this step, you should require to run you 'cmd' windows shell in Administrator Mode for Windows Vista / Windows 7

For deploying *apidocs* inside googlecode, we commit this docs under svn and browse it directly. The counter-part of this method is that ìt requires 'svn:mime-type' for all files in order to be correctly rendered.

You must configure your svn 'config' file under '%USER%/AppData/Roaming/Subversion' on windows like it:
{{{
[miscellany]
enable-auto-props = yes

[auto-props]
*.html = svn:mime-type=text/html
*.css = svn:mime-type=text/css
*.txt = svn:mime-type=text/plain
*.jpg = svn:mime-type=image/jpeg
*.gif = svn:mime-type=image/gif
*.png = svn:mime-type=image/png
*.jar = svn:mime-type=application/java-archive
*.jnlp = svn:mime-type=application/x-java-jnlp-file
}}}

Be careful, this auto mime-types must be configured in other place to order to work under Netbeans.
The netbeans placeholder is like '%USER%\.netbeans\6.9\config\svn\config'

== Deploying staged artifacts ==
 * 'mvn clean deploy -Dgpg.passphrase=yourpassphrase'
 * You should use after the [http://oss.sonatype.org/index.html OSS Nexus repository] interface to promote an artifact

= Creating an account on Sonatype OSS repository =
See the [http://nexus.sonatype.org/oss-repository-hosting.html Sonatype Repository hosting guide]

Your *pom.xml*'s project must describe sonatype repositories:
{{{
        <repository>
            <id>sonatype-nexus-staging</id>
            <name>Nexus Release Repository</name>
            <url>http://oss.sonatype.org/service/local/staging/deploy/maven2/</url>
        </repository>
        <snapshotRepository>
            <id>sonatype-nexus-snapshots</id>
            <name>Sonatype Nexus Snapshots</name>
            <url>http://oss.sonatype.org/content/repositories/snapshots</url>
        </snapshotRepository>
}}}

 * On sonatype, you must promote this staged artifact to release

= Maven documentations resources =
 * [http://maven.apache.org/guides/introduction/introduction-to-the-lifecycle.html Maven lifecycle]
 * [http://maven.apache.org/plugins/maven-compiler-plugin/ maven-compiler-plugin]
 * [http://maven.apache.org/plugins/maven-resources-plugin/ maven-resources-plugin]
 * [http://maven.apache.org/plugins/maven-source-plugin/ maven-source-plugin]
 * [http://maven.apache.org/plugins/maven-javadoc-plugin/ maven-javadoc-plugin]
 * [http://www.sonatype.com/people/2010/01/how-to-generate-pgp-signatures-with-maven/ how to generate pgp signatures]
 * [http://www.sonatype.com/books/mvnref-book/reference/writing-plugins.html Writing Maven Plugins]